[AUDIO LOGO]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> In ancient times, men used
to live side by side with
the supernatural and
gave it a sacred value.
Thousands of people throughout
the history of mankind
have claimed encounters
with the supernatural.
Many of these were
traumatic experiences.
Nowadays, we don't fully
understand this phenomenon,
which has accompanied mankind
since the beginning of history.
The UFO phenomenon could be
an archetypal modern image
of the sacred.
The storytelling found in
movies and fantastic literature
has imprinted in the
collective mind the idea
that this phenomenon is linked
to extraterrestrial beings that
inhabit other planets
and come to conquer ours.
We demonize the unknown.
We are afraid of it.
I must confess that I
also fear the unknown,
but I want to break that
barrier and discover
if this is a real
phenomenon or just something
that has been made up.
The story of Juan Perez
is the perfect excuse
to start talking about
the impossible in order
to enter in tangible
contact with a magical world
that probably we all yearn for
in some moment of our lives.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> A group of people was
expecting to hear a fantastic
tale, but one broke down
and couldn't tell his story.
What happened?
What did he encounter?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's not easy, says
Juan, about to cry.
More than 30 years have
passed, and he still
has PTSD from that
childhood event.
What does psychology
tell us about trauma,
which is tinged with
supernatural origins?
I've read the case reports,
but they don't give me
the answer I'm looking for.
Reading is not enough.
I have to meet the person
who was face-to-face
with the phenomenon.
[BIRDS CALLING, CHIRPING]
What kinds of
questions should I ask
someone who claims to have been
the subject of a UFO encounter?
How do you break the ice?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Nothing coherent
comes to mind.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> On top of that, I know
nothing about the countryside.
I had never planted
anything in my life.
I want to understand the
big truths of the universe,
but yet I don't know how
to plant a head of lettuce.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Juan lived alone
all of his life.
Since the moment
of the encounter,
he decided to seek refuge in
the countryside with his pets.
He traveled from ranch to ranch,
always searching for something,
anything that
might help him make
meaning from the
existential pain that
was a daily reality ever since
the incident 30 years earlier.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Juan is such an extremely
sensitive person that,
to avoid getting hurt, he
performs the role of the gaucho
with a knife to protect himself.
I still haven't found
the right moment
to talk about something
that I know might
make him feel uncomfortable.
[BIRDS CRYING, CHIRPING]
[STIRRING MUSIC]
Juan is not a hunter.
Juan is prey to the phenomenon
that torments him daily.
Juan is a hunter
who has been hunted.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
>> Juan froze because he sensed
that the lights were going
to show up at his home.
He warned me that in the
wee hours of the morning,
the dogs were going to howl.
[CRICKETS CHIRPING, DOGS
HOWLING]
That night, I couldn't
bring myself to go outdoors.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[SNIFFS]
[HAUNTING MUSIC]
[SHEEP BAAING]
[STIRRING MUSIC]
>> I'm traveling to Paraguay to
meet with the Guarani elders.
Juan's ancestral lineage
is of this group of people.
My hope is that
the wise men may be
familiar with the
elements of Juan's story.
They may recognize
the phenomenon
and may be able to ease
some of his distress.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[TENSE MUSIC]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SINGING]
[WHOOSHING SOUND]
[WIND HOWLING]
[HORSE WHINNYING]
[HORSE SNORTING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[BIRD CAWING]
>> It surprised me to see the
ease with which they received
my questions about
the phenomenon.
What is supernatural for
us is natural to them.
They shared with me that
the white man has not
come to them before in search
of the secrets of life.
Just like Plutarco stated,
you are all distracted.
Those simple words kept
on echoing in my head.
How is it that no
one is interested
in the transcendental?
No one wonders why
we breathe, what
we are doing on this Earth,
how can we help each other.
We are distracted.
They know it, and
they just observe us.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[CALM MUSIC]
>> The next morning, Juan
confessed to me that it was
the first time in his life
that he had been able to dream
without waking up terrified.
Juan interacts with the
phenomenon through his dreams,
receiving information about his
life and other people's lives.
He never knew how
to deal with this.
And instead, he only
received mockery
because of his
condition, forcing him
to hide more and more inward.
It was from his
contact with the UFO
that Juan woke up to the
Guarani gift of clairvoyance.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[SAD MUSIC]
>> I never imagined Juan
was going to feel this way.
I'm relieved to
see him like this.
A bridge has been built
between his consciousness
and his lineage, thereby healing
that feeling of loneliness.
The truth is we are
never completely alone
if we connect to our origins.
Juan carries in his left
arm the only physical trace
left by his encounter
with the phenomenon.
30 years ago, Juan
participated in a UFO Congress
giving his testimony.
Dr. Nestor Berlanda
was there as well.
Years later, when he was
already a psychiatrist,
he periodically
visited Juan to check
on the evolution of the case and
how it had affected his life.
Juan trusts him.
He's willing to travel
and cross the threshold
of his own conscious.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[STIRRING MUSIC]
[DOOR CREAKING]
[WHOOSHING]
[HORSE WHINNYING]
[WHIRRING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[WHIRRING, HISSING]
[ELECTRONIC DOORS HISSING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[ELECTRONIC THROBBING, BUZZING]
[ELECTRONIC BUZZING, THROBBING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[ELECTRONIC THUD, MUSIC]
[ELECTRONIC MUSIC]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[ELECTRONIC HISSING]
[HORSE NEIGHING]
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[EERIE MUSIC]
[ELECTRONIC BUBBLING SOUND,
HISSING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[HISSING, CRACKLING]
[BIRDS CRYING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[FIRE CRACKLING]
[DOG BARKING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> Every time Juan finds
an answer and feels relief,
I get more confused.
His fear starts to creep on me,
anxiety for not understanding
what all this is about.
And what if this
is just a dream,
and the phenomenon
is something that
is there to help us wake up?
What he saw is not
what is important,
but what matters is
what it represents
in his consciousness.
There are few people who tried
to go across the threshold
to understand the other side.
But what is it that
he has that allows
him to access the other side?
Who is Juan?
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[GOATS BLEATING]
[GOAT BLEATING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[STIRRING MUSIC]
>> Juan's encounter was
on September 6, 1978.
That same week, there were two
other reports of encounters,
like his, within a
2-kilometer radius.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[EERIE MUSIC]
[STIRRING MUSIC]
>> The three of them
witnessed the same phenomenon,
but the outcomes
were all different.
Juan was the only one of
the three who was not afraid
and had the courage to discover
what existed beyond the fog.
The UFO phenomenon exists.
It has been with us
throughout history.
It is physical in nature, and
it remains unexplained in terms
of contemporary science.
It represents a level
of consciousness
that we have not yet
recognized, and which
is able to manipulate
dimensions beyond time and space
as we understand them.
It affects our own consciousness
in ways that we cannot fully
grasp.
These words belong to Dr.
Vallée a French astrophysicist
who was dedicated his whole life
to studying the UFO phenomenon.
He used to work
for NASA, helping
to create the first
computerized map of Mars.
He also collaborated on
the Blue Book project.
When American
scientists got together
to analyze thousands
of UFO cases,
it was more than 30
years ago that he
had traveled to Argentina with
his wife to meet young Juan.
Today, so many years
after that first meeting,
I've decided to
send him a letter
and tell him about
what we were doing,
without ever expecting
that he would even reply.
And now I'm waiting to see him.
The first few hours with Dr.
Vallée were very intense.
He seemed very interested in
knowing how Juan was doing
and what kinds of situations
Juan had recently had to face.
I talked to Dr. Vallée about
the long-term consequences
of Juan's encounter
with the phenomenon,
the appearance of
precognitive dreams,
and what happened
during the regression
with the significant
appearance of his grandfather.
Today, I feel that
he's the one who
can answer my questions
about the phenomenon
and help Juan and
I both understand
how his story fits into other
stories around the world.
>> --all different types of--
>> And what is it that motivated
Dr. Vallée to visit us,
considering that this is just
one of the thousands of cases
that he studied?
>> --to be-- to be parallel to--
[STIRRING MUSIC]
You can adjust the
focus by turning this.
>> To be able to
see the phenomenon,
one needs more than eyes.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> Listening to witnesses and
accumulating the data from what
they were telling me, I could
not escape noticing that they
were describing an
impact on consciousness,
an impact on their thoughts,
an impact on their dreams,
an impact on their life.
And it would not have
been honest to separate
those reports from
the physical reports.
Also, people in-- especially
in close encounter situations
were describing
other effects that
were biological,
physiological effects.
Speaking to witnesses
like Juan, for example,
it became clear that
the phenomenon could not
fit nicely in the
four-dimensional physics
that we use every day.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> We started looking at
models of parallel universes
because we need to account for
the fact that witnesses are
describing objects that seem
to-- to come out of nowhere,
seem to disappear on the spot,
objects that change shapes
in the same way
that, for example,
a five-dimensional object would
go through our four-dimensional
universe.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The idea that there are
multiple universes never came
from me.
It's an idea that is very
popular in physics today.
It's a theory, but
it's a theory that
authorizes the description
of the universe
at a much higher level of
detail and of complexity.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> It's something that seems
to live in our universe,
is capable of interacting with
us, as in the case of Juan.
He's capable also of
borrowing some of our images
and interacting
within our society.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> The approach is to think of
the UFO phenomenon as a display
as if the phenomenon was
displaying itself was
exhibiting images
that, in part come,
from the background or from
the consciousness of the--
of the observer, of the witness.
[CALM MUSIC]
>> Now I feel like I'm in a
movie inside another movie.
The Guarani wise
men and Dr. Vallée
seem to be telling
me the same thing.
Despite having followed
different paths,
they arrived at the
same conclusion.
The Guarani wise men know
that what is seen outside
is not real.
Our perceived reality
is something holographic
projected all around us, which
obscures a truer reality.
What is real remains invisible.
That's where the spirit
of the phenomenon
is, behind that which
is being projected.
Just like Dr. Vallée
explained to me,
there exists a phenomenon
of unknown origins
that's been projected as
though on a movie screen.
That movie screen surrounds us,
and we see the projected movie
as real.
My first impulse
was to understand
the origin of the phenomenon.
It seems that we are part
of something really big
but have access to so little.
I have to stop my
inquisitive mind
to enjoy the fruits
of the phenomenon
and how it makes us walk
through a constant search
towards finding ourselves.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> My own interest is more,
what is it that happens
to the witnesses?
How can we help them?
The witnesses,
when they grow up,
will integrate that
experience within their life,
as Juan has done.
And that process is
very interesting,
and these people have
something to teach us.
[NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
>> I would love to ask you--
what were your
first thoughts when
you met Juan the first
time you came to Argentina?
>> My first thought was that I
was very happy that my wife was
with me because she was
a child psychologist,
and I've always thought that
children were better observers
than adults because the--
in general, children
do not project
their own interpretation
on what they see.
For example, it's well-known
that in aircraft accidents,
the children will
describe much better what
happened to the airplane
than the adults.
The adults tend to add
details that are irrelevant.
And the children are--
very often, the children are
more precise because they
don't have an interpretation.
And they don't try
to impress you.
They just tell
you what happened.
And that was true
in the case of Juan.
My impression was of a-- of
a child who was very direct,
very clear, was--
also, the interaction
with his father
and the interaction
with the family
was beautiful, that it was
just very pure, very clear.
The observation itself was
complicated and complex, rich,
and so on.
But the description was very--
the situation was very clear.
>> Very clear for you.
And today, when you--
when you saw it after more than
30 years, what do you feel?
What do you think?
>> I see a man who has been--
whose life has been impacted
by what he saw as a child
and who is still evolving
through the questions
that the observation has raised.
And I'm hoping that he
can close that circle,
reach some closure,
and then go on
with a new phase of his life.
>> So you think this is the
final stage of what happened 40
years ago.
>> It could be, yes.
It could put a new layer of
memory on what he experienced,
and I'm hoping that we
can help him integrate it
with-- with his
own consciousness.
>> Do you think this was
a special case for you?
>> Yes, it's always been a
special case because it's very
rich in terms of testimony.
I mean, he was the only witness
in this particular case.
But remember, we found three
other cases at the same period
in the same area that
reinforce each other.
So we know the phenomenon was
active, phenomenon was there.
And he happened to
be there to see it.
[STIRRING MUSIC]
[INSECTS BUZZING]
>> Juan arrived home.
I was scared because
I didn't know
how he was going to receive
this encounter with his roots.
But here he is as himself,
who he always has been.
Our work with Juan created
a community for him,
and Guarani people
know from ancient times
how important a community is.
Grandfather Francisco warned
everyone in the community
about Juan's situation,
and he implored
them to make sure that someone
was with Juan at all times.
In a world where appearances
are the priority,
we tend to forget
what it is to be
vulnerable in front of others.
Juan taught me to be vulnerable.
Here children accept the
supernatural with no judgment.
They integrate it to their lives
thanks to the spiritual support
of the elders.
Juan was a kid when he came
across the supernatural,
but there was no one
there to help him.
And so he endured
it for decades.
His story would
have been different
if he had been born in
the land of his ancestors.
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[BIRDS CHIRPING]
[LAUGHING, PLAYFUL CHATTER]
[RHYTHMIC TRIBAL MUSIC]
[SINGING, CHANTING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[RHYTHMIC TRIBAL MUSIC]
[SINGING, CHANTING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[RHYTHMIC TRIBAL MUSIC]
[SINGING, CHANTING]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]
[BIRD CHIRPING]
[CRICKETS CHIRPING]
[SINGING, CHANTING]
>> Seeing Juan's healing allows
me to understand how important
Juan's identity is.
We are much more
than we think we are.
Perhaps from the other
side, the phenomenon
is moving us to wake up from
the long dream of illusion
so we remember who we are.
That 12-year-old kid who was
searching for himself today
becomes a resolute man.
Now he has no fears.
That UFO ship of his
childhood is truly
the one that brought Juan
to these primordial lands.
30 years past so that Juan
was able to finally return
to his source.
In this simple act,
grandfather Francisco,
in full expansion of
his consciousness,
allows Ñande Ru, or God,
to whisper to his ear
the true name of Juan,
his true identity.
No words are needed
in this ritual.
A few hours before dawn,
Juan gives himself up
with an open heart.
I can say with confidence
that the phenomenon
exists because it deeply
affected me on my own journey.
I don't know more than that.
But I don't feel the need
to prove its existence.
The only thing I
know for sure is
that we have to be ready
for the moment when
the phenomenon comes knocking
at the doors of our perception
because maybe what we see
in front of our eyes--
it is not more
than our own soul.
[PEACEFUL MUSIC]
>> [NON-ENGLISH SPEECH]